In this manuscript, the authors applied RNA-seq to identify genes showing differential expression levels in AMF-inoculated plant compared to non-AMF-inoculated plants. The RNA-seq data may be useful to the community, however, this study just stayed at a simple description to the surface of the phenomenon, and didn’t provide novel insights in AMF-triggered resistence.
 clinical treatment and diagnosis
Major concerns:
1. Can AMF-inoculation confer trifoliate orange resistance to Phytophthora parasitica? This is critical point to support why the authors preformed the RNA-seq experiments, but the authors didn’t show it.

2. If AMF-inoculation can induce resistance to P. parasitica, why? Which defense pathways are activated after AMF-inoculation? PTI, ETI? Or SA, JA, ET pathway? A novel model about AMF-induced resistance should be proposed.
 tumor proliferation
3. Whether the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in +F. m-P. p vs. -F. m-P. p overlap with those in +F. m+P. p vs. -F. m+P. p as well as those in -F. m+P. p vs. -F. m-P. p?

4. All three figures should be placed as supplementary Figures. And if GO analysis and other functional analysis are need, the authors should show the enrichment analysis results.

Minor concerns:
1. "The transcriptome results by Illumina HiSeq 4000 revealed that the percentage of Q30 bases reached 92.99% or above, and 29,696 unigenes were annotated in a total of 63,531 unigenes." should be deleted from Abstract.

2. "Forty-two genes were functionally annotated as the putative "defense mechanism", whilst AMF inoculation induced 1 gene down-regulated and 3 genes up-regulated under P. parasitica infection" in L47-L48. What means "AMF inoculation induced 1 gene down-regulated and 3 genes up-regulated under P. parasitica infection"? Only 4 DEGs?

3. What "unigene" means?

4. L18 "654 and 103 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were respectively annotated". "annotated" should be "identified".

5. L245 "RAN-Seq" should be "RNA-Seq"

6. L296 "To identify DEGs, the edgeR software was utilized. Statistical significance indexes were established based on the fold change (|log2FC| ≥ 2) and p-value (p ≤ 0.01)." Why use |log2FC| ≥ 2?


Whether it's a differentially expressed gene